## Course Description
The Unix command line has survived and thrived for almost 50 years because it lets people do complex things with just a few keystrokes. Sometimes called "the universal glue of programming," it helps users combine existing programs in new ways, automate repetitive tasks, and run programs on clusters and clouds that may be halfway around the world. This course will introduce its key elements and show you how to use them efficiently.
## Manipulating files and directories
#### How does the shell compare to a desktop interface?
An operating system like Windows, Linux, or Mac OS is a special kind of program. It controls the computer's processor, hard drive, and network connection, but its most important job is to run other programs.
Since human beings aren't digital, they need an interface to interact with the operating system. The most common one these days is a graphical file explorer, which translates clicks and double-clicks into commands to open files and run programs. Before computers had graphical displays, though, people typed instructions into a program called a command-line shell. Each time a command is entered, the shell runs some other programs, prints their output in human-readable form, and then displays a prompt to signal that it's ready to accept the next command. (Its name comes from the notion that it's the "outer shell" of the computer.)
Typing commands instead of clicking and dragging may seem clumsy at first, but as you will see, once you start spelling out what you want the computer to do, you can combine old commands to create new ones and automate repetitive operations with just a few keystrokes.
#### Where am I?
The filesystem manages files and directories (or folders). Each is identified by an absolute path that shows how to reach it from the filesystem's **root directory**: /home/repl is the directory repl in the directory home, while /home/repl/course.txt is a file course.txt in that directory, and / on its own is the root directory.
To find out where you are in the filesystem, run the command pwd (short for "**p**rint **w**orking **d**irectory"). This prints the absolute path of your **current working directory**, which is where the shell runs commands and looks for files by default.
#### How can I identify files and directories?
pwd tells you where you are. To find out what's there, type ls (which is short for "**l**i**s**ting") and press the enter key. On its own, ls lists the contents of your current directory (the one displayed by pwd). If you add the names of some files, ls will list them, and if you add the names of directories, it will list their contents. For example, ls /home/repl shows you what's in your starting directory (usually called your **home directory**).